Biosimilarity of CT-P10 and MabThera is considered demonstrated based on the efficacy data.	Positive
The CHMP considered this application acceptable from clinical point of view.	Positive
For the latter, uncertainties due to the observed imbalance of cases occurring in patients treated with cladribine compared to placebo as well as the low number of events remained, although supportive analyses did not support a causal association.	Neutral
From the safety data presented there are no particular safety signals that suggest an additive effect when FF and GB are administered together.	Positive
The safety profile of ABP 501 and Humira is considered comparable.	Positive
The objectives of study CT-P10 3.3 were to demonstrate similarity in pharmacokinetics and non-inferiority in efficacy of CT-P10 to Rituxan as primary endpoints when coadministered with CVP in patients with advanced FL; these objectives have been met and furthermore, extrapolation in the context of NHL and CLL indications is acceptable.	Positive
Bioequivalence of the FDC to the separate components has been established.	Positive
It is acknowledged that both insulin glargine and lixisenatide may be taken at any time of the day when used in mono-therapy.	Neutral
No worsening of the immunogenicity profile was observed after transitioning from Humira to SB5.	Positive
PAES: In order to evaluate the long term efficacy and safety of Nusinersen in symptomatic patients with spinal muscular atrophy, Phase 3, open-label extension study (SHINE, CS11)	Negative
Further, an 8 week course of SOF/VEL/VOX showed an SVR rate of 95% in a DAA-naïve population; however, this did not meet predefined non-inferiority with SOF/VEL for 12 weeks.	Negative
Along with the needed data on efficacy and safety to be derived from the above studies, their protocols include PK data collections	Neutral
This is in accordance with the relevant guideline and additional clinical studies were not considered necessary.	Positive
The CHMP considers that additional supportive data on efficacy will be provided also from the following post-authorisation safety study: 	Neutral
The frequencies and nature of the adverse events were in line with those reported for the innovator MabThera/Rituxan in the RA and NLH study populations.	Positive
There was no clinical efficacy study performed to support the biosimilarity claim.	Neutral
The long duration of response and high durable response rate observed after 6-month minimum follow-up is further substantiated by the 12-months minimum follow-up analysis	Positive
The statistical methodology used in the studies is justified and consistent with the principles of guidelines on the investigation of bioequivalence.	Positive
Taking into account the intrinsic limitation of single arm studies, the rarity of the disease and the challenges to compare the results with data from historical controls and in the literature, the currently available data are deemed to support the efficacy of avelumab in both pre-treated and chemotherapy-naïve patients	Positive
Therefore, the clinical benefit in 2nd line treatment is considered clinically meaningful and the magnitude of the effect is significant compared to chemotherapy	Positive
• PASS: German real-world cohort study should be submitted as additional PhV activity to address the missing information of safety and efficacy in immune compromised patients	Negative
Based on the totality of the data, it can be agreed that nusinersen has a positive benefit/risk profile for treating SMA	Positive
Data from treated pre-symptomatic infants with genetically confirmed SMA show that they are achieving motor milestones and developing muscle strength and motor function with the nusinersen treatment that are more consistent with those of normal infants than symptomatic infants with SMA	Positive
No treatment-related SAE was reported and only one subject (0.1%) in the Phase 3 trials discontinued SOF/VEL/VOX due to reported advents, assessed unrelated to study drug.	Positive
The size of the safety database and duration of exposure is considered appropriate for the evaluation of the general safety profile of Insulin lispro Sanofi.	Positive
Therefore, the available safety data are considered supportive of biosimilarity between CT-P10 and MabThera.	Positive
However, precaution is warranted given a small size of safety database, a limited information on long-term toxicity, and a limited data on PK/PD interactions together with indication on potential for worsening toxicity for VEGFRi -mTOR inhibitor combinations in general.	Negative
Also, the observed 23% reduction in the exacerbation rate is above the minimum clinically important difference.	Positive
All the clinical data have been assessed for Nuwiq application and adequately reflected in the Product Information.	Positive
Overall, data of the submitted studies are considered overall adequate to identify the patient population of the indication.	Positive
While the risk of ALT elevations seems lower as compared to previously authorized NS3/4A, it remains that some situations (namely in case of combination with EE-based regimens) have been identified at increased hepatic risk.	Neutral
Based on the primary meta-analysis conducted by the applicant including the six pivotal studies, the estimated benefit differences reached about 13% (ITT and as reported).	Neutral
Biosimilarity of CT-P10 and MabThera is considered demonstrated based on the efficacy data.	Positive
The majority of AEs and SAEs reported in subjects exposed to nusinersen were consistent with the nature and frequency of events typically occurring in the context of SMA	Positive
The overall safety profile of CT-P10 appeared roughly similar to that of the reference product although the pooled incidences of AEs and SAEs were generally lower for the reference products.	Neutral
In the HCV GT1-infected population (the most widely represented in the EU) the observed results -with 99% SVR12 achieved with a convenient 8 weeks treatment duration in non-cirrhotic TN or TE-PRS patients and 97% in cirrhotic patients with a 12 weeks treatment duration- support the fact that this FDC will represent an optimization in the therapeutic armamentarium. 	Positive
However, most of these adverse events were well managed by dose reduction, interruption or by additional medical treatment.	Positive
No new safety concerns were identified during the development program in the clinical trial population.	Positive
1).Nevertheless, the applicant has conducted two large efficacy and safety (phase III) non-inferiority studies comparing the test and reference products in order to investigate how PK/PD features of the biosimilar candidate product translate into clinical parameters relevant for the management of patients with Type 1 and 2 DM.	Neutral
An acceptable justification for a biowaiver of Ivabradine Hydrochloride, 5 mg, film-coated tablets has been provided.	Positive
Overall, ABP 501 has in the RA study shown similarity to adalimumab in several analyses.	Positive
Of particular interest this FDC comprises two pangenotypic components with high potency and high genetic barrier.	Neutral
Although dataset of AFL patients has been updated, data are still considered very limited to reach firm conclusion about safety proflie.	Negative
Studies requested for Lenvima will also provide relevant safety information for this application	Negative
The CHMP considers the following measures necessary to address the missing efficacy data for 1st line treatment in the context of a conditional MA:	Negative
Nevertheless, CHMP noted that since the clinical development has been built mainly to promote the use of this dual therapy in first line treatment rather than in retreatment, the limited sample sized MAGELLAN-1 study (without GT3 patients) in DAA TE leaves many uncertainties for the use of this dual therapy in patients failing DAA.	Negative
The submitted additional analyses further support the comparability of the safety profile of SB5 and Humira.	Positive
Based on the available data, the CHMP considered that all criteria for a BCS-based biowaiver were met. 	Positive
The results in 2nd line treatment show an ORR of 33% with some patients having durable responses resulting in an apparent PFS plateau	Positive
This means that further evidence on this medicinal product is awaited	Negative
TDI focal score, the third co-primary endpoint, had a clinically relevant improvement with both treatments, but the mean difference between treatments in TDI focal score at week 26 was not statistically significant.	Neutral
The number of subjects is sufficient for comparing the safety profile of the biosimilar candidate SB5 and reference medicinal product EU-Humira and studying the safety of a biosimilar product for up to one year.	Positive
• Exploring higher doses - The company is requested to explore whether higher doses of nusinersen could show greater efficacy	Neutral
Additional safety data from Maintenance Study Period CT-P10 3.3.and Follow-up Period should be provided (see RMP).	Negative
The safety profile of nusinersen was characterized in subjects with infantile-onset SMA in a randomized controlled study and an open-label study; pre-symptomatic infants with SMA in an open-label study, and children with later-onset SMA in a randomized study and open-label studies	Neutral
The frequency of related AEs, severity of AEs and AESIs remained similar for the group who transitioned from Humira to SB5 at week 24.	Positive
Due to the heparin-like structure of PPS, a weak anticoagulant effect was observed with PPS and patients with risk factors for increased bleeding (undergoing invasive procedures, having underlying coagulopathy or taking anticoagulants) should be carefully evaluated for haemorrhage during the treatment.	Negative
The CHMP considers the following measures as key to the B/R ratio of the product and necessary to address issues related to efficacy:	Negative
The superiority to placebo was demonstrated for both dupilumab doses as monotherapy or in combination with TCS in AD patients who are insufficiently controlled with topical therapies alone.	Positive
No additional clinical studies were provided within current application.	Neutral
The safety profile of the D/C/F/TAF FDC is largely based on the well-established safety profile of the individual components.	Positive
Subgroup analyses suggested a larger effect size in patients with high disease activity.	Neutral
The active-comparator study demonstrated the efficacy of sarilumab as monotherapy and relative to the biologic DMARD adalimumab.	Positive
With regard to immunogenicity, the differences in the AIA response between SARS342434 and Humalog were small and inconsistent.	Negative
Insulin glargine primarily reduces HbA1c by decreasing the fasting plasma glucose whereas lixisenatide primarily reduces the post-prandial glucose excursion.	Neutral
The CHMP considers the following measures necessary to address issues related to safety	Negative
Study 010 will assess in vitro lenvatinib protein binding, determine the unbound drug concentrations in order to define correctly the dose-adjustment in patients with severe hepatic and renal impairment.	Neutral
Study EFC12404 provides relevant information on the contribution of the mono-components to the effect of the FRC.	Positive
Taken together, these data demonstrate consistently that nusinersen has produced meaningful benefits across a broad range of SMA phenotypes	Positive
Although dataset of AFL patients has been updated, data are still considered very limited to reach firm conclusion about safety proflie.	Negative
For the purpose of the clinical biosimilarity exercise for biosimilar insulin products, the evaluation of HbA1c is not a sensitive endpoint and therefore efficacy studies evaluating HbA1c are not requested (EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/32775/2005_Rev.	Neutral
The incidences of documented hypoglycaemic episode were comparable between the FRC and insulin glargine group.	Positive
Based on these data and since relapses in both SPMS and RRMS patients have the same underlying inflammatory pathophysiology, patients with RMS (instead of RRMS) were considered a more suitable target population.	Negative
Furthermore according to the meta-analysis of the four pivotal studies performed in patients meeting the ESSIC classification 2X to 3C the pooled response rate under PPS treatment was 2-fold higher than the pooled response rate under placebo (“GRA” primary endpoint and also pain and urgency)and efficacy of PPS was considered sufficiently demonstrated in this population	Positive
• PAES: In order to evaluate the long term efficacy and safety of Nusinersen in pre-symptomatic patients with spinal muscular atrophy, the MAH should conduct and submit the results of the Phase 2, open-label study (NURTURE (SM201))	Negative
The current studies do not provide evidence that the treatment effects persist with indefinite length of treatment, neither in infantile nor in later onset SMA	Negative
Subjects with later-onset SMA who received nusinersen achieved and maintained motor function across multiple measures and milestones such as the ability to walk that are completely inconsistent with natural history	Positive
This has been appropriately covered in the Maviret SmPC by the addition of a contra-indication with EE-containing medicines.	Positive
Compared to SOF/VEL and placebo, there were similar rates of AEs overall, with the only notable difference being increased rates of mild (Grade 1) nausea and diarrhoea.	Positive
Broadly, the number, severity and type of TEAEs, SAEs, AEs of special interest, treatment discontinuations due to AEs, laboratory findings were comparable between SB5 and Humira and mirroring the safety profile as described in the SmPC of Humira.	Positive
The recommendation has been further supported by data from the lixisenatide file, showing that no statistically significant differences are observed between pre-breakfast or pre-dinner dosing of lixisenatide.	Neutral
The clinical database is acceptable and considered sufficient.	Positive
The main safety issues were related to the risks of prolonged severe lymphopenia, infections including reactivation of latent infections and opportunistic infections as well as malignancies.	Neutral
Therefore, further studies need to be conducted in relevant clinical setting in order to provide comprehensive data and to improve tolerability profile of the combination in view of a limited safety database for the combination treatment at intended doses/schedule, related uncertainties and poor tolerability of the combination (high rate of treatment discontinuation and dose modifications).	Negative
Also mean change in DAS28-CRP showed high similarity at all visits.	Positive
The CHMP considers the following measures necessary to address issues related to safety: 	Negative
In addition, PK data discussed support the extrapolation to the autoimmune indications MPA/GPA.	Positive
Based on the presented and available data, dupilumab has been found to have an acceptable safety profile.	Positive
In this informed consent application, there are no new issues related to the clinical data. 	Positive
Superiority of CHF 5993 pMDI over Tiotropium and non-inferiority relative to Foster pMDI + Tiotropium in terms pre-dose morning FEV1 at Week 52 was also demonstrated.	Positive
With the FRC, the decrease in HbA1c was achieved without increase in body weight, and without an increase in the reporting of hypoglycaemia compared to patients on monotherapy with insulin glargine.	Positive
ACR20 results per visit showed significant differences which may be interpreted as indicating a faster onset of effect for ABP 501, which could question similarity.	Negative
The overall safety profile of CT-P10 appeared roughly similar to that of the reference product although the pooled incidences of AEs and SAEs were generally lower for the reference products.	Neutral
Overall, the fixed combination of lixisenatide/insulin glargine demonstrates a comparable safety profile as the two mono-components.	Positive
nusinersen has demonstrated a favourable safety and efficacy pattern in the treatment of infantile-onset SMA from a randomized controlled clinical study, Study CS3B	Positive
SOF/VEL/VOX has been studied in a sufficient number of patients, including substantial numbers of patients with compensated cirrhosis.	Positive
The planned extension studies CT-P10 3.2 (RA) CT-P10 3.3 (AFL) and CT-P10 3.4 (LTBFL) listed in the RMP will provide additional long term safety data.	Neutral
However, it should be noted that concomitant use of SU was not allowed in the present studies with FRC.	Neutral
No worsening of the immunogenicity profile was observed after transitioning from Humira to SB5.	Positive
Indeed, this benefit difference was mainly driven by the statistically significant results of the three pivotal studies Parsons et al 1993, Mulholland et al 1990 and Parsons and Mulholland 1987 including patients falling within ESSIC classification 2X to 3C.	Neutral
The observed safety profile is in line with expectations and did not raise additional concerns.	Positive
Overall, the CHMP was of the view that the available clinical safety data were adequate for the purpose of assessing the safety of cladribine for the use as treatment of adult patients with highly active RMS.	Positive
A clinical overview has been provided and was based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature.	Neutral
The submitted additional analyses further support the comparability of the safety profile of SB5 and Humira.	Positive
In addition, data from the lixisenatide file has been presented which shows maintenance of efficacy up to 76 weeks in combination with basal insulin.	Positive
The data provided in 1st line, although preliminary, showed activity of avelumab in mMCC in terms of response rate, and evidence of a similar durable response from the small subset of patients with a longer follow-up compared to 2nd line treatment	Positive
This risk is adequately addressed in various sections of the SmPC and as important identified risk in the RMP.	Positive
There are no major objections based on the efficacy data.	Positive
The majority of treated infants with infantile-onset SMA achieved improvement, with a great proportion reaching a clinically meaningful and continued improvements in motor milestones (e.g. independent sitting, standing and walking), muscle strength, and motor function that exceed those of the sham control-treated infants in Study CS3B and the natural history of the disease, where a progressive loss of motor function is observed	Positive
Additionally, the following measures will contribute to the better understanding of the efficacy, safety and clinical applicability of the product: 	Neutral
Nevertheless, the responder analysis indicates a benefit for CHF 5993 compared with Foster on TDI symptoms for a greater proportion of patients.	Positive
This benefit difference (PPS versus placebo) reached 17% when excluding 2 pivotal studies (Holm-Bentzen et al 1987 and Nickel et al 2015) with the lowest response rates and with a population less homogeneous than in the four other clinical studies (mixing both broad IC/BPS)	Neutral
The number of subjects is sufficient for comparing the safety profile of the biosimilar candidate SB5 and reference medicinal product EU-Humira and studying the safety of a biosimilar product for up to one year.	Positive
Overall, the risk minimisation measures including the safety information in the product information as well as the prescriber and patient guide were considered adequate to address the risks with cladribine treatment, while further data are gathered in the post-marketing setting	Positive
Furthermore, data in SPMS patients with superimposed relapses, although very limited, supported a beneficial effect of cladribine on the relapse rate in this population.	Positive
The results presented on efficacy support the biosimilarity claim between the test product SB5 and the reference product EU Humira.	Positive
The FRC has been investigated in a clinical programme of adequate design.	Positive
The objectives of study CT-P10 3.3 were to demonstrate similarity in pharmacokinetics and non-inferiority in efficacy of CT-P10 to Rituxan as primary endpoints when coadministered with CVP in patients with advanced FL; these objectives have been met and furthermore, extrapolation in the context of NHL and CLL indications is acceptable.	Positive
The consistency among the various key clinically meaningful endpoints, each of which provide independent measures central to the pathology of SMA, support significant efficacy in both pre-symptomatic and symptomatic subjects and across infantile-onset and later-onset SMA	Positive
• EMBRACE (SM202) - Phase 2, randomized, double-blind, sham- procedure controlled study to assess the safety, tolerability, PK, and efficacy in patients who were not eligible to participate in studies CS3b or CS4 	Neutral
A non-inferior efficacy of D/C/F/TAF vs DRV+COBI+TVD has been shown in the phase 2 study, although a higher than expected discontinuation rate was observed in the D/C/F/TAF group.	Neutral
Poor tolerability of the combination is manifest with high rates of discontinuations due to AEs and dose modifications.	Negative
Biosimilarity of CT-P10 and MabThera is considered demonstrated based on the efficacy data.	Positive
Safety and tolerability of Insulin lispro Sanofi and Humalog seem to be comparable and thus support biosimilarity of these two products.	Positive
The planned extension studies CT-P10 3.2 (RA) CT-P10 3.3 (AFL) and CT-P10 3.4 (LTBFL) listed in the RMP will provide additional long term safety data.	Neutral
The major contribution in HbA1c is due to insulin glargine as the treatment difference between the FRC and insulin glargine ranged from 0.3 % to 0.5 %, whereas the treatment difference between the FRC and lixisenatide was 0.8 %.	Neutral
Study TRIPLE 6, CHF 5993 had a statistically significant superior effect on moderate and severe COPD exacerbation rate over 52 weeks than Tiotropium.	Positive
In light of established biosimilarity on quality level, the remaining uncertainty that the safety profile of Inhixa and Clexane differs significantly was considered low enough to conclude on similarity.	Positive
The frequency of related AEs, severity of AEs and AESIs remained similar for the group who transitioned from Humira to SB5 at week 24.	Positive
The superior clinical efficacy of CHF 5993 pMDI compared to Tiotropium was further supported by consistent findings on other relevant parameters, including SGRQ and use of rescue medication.	Positive
Overall, CHF 5993 pMDI has shown benefits in reduction in exacerbation frequency and in improvement in lung function in two large Phase III studies.	Positive
The FRC is provided in two different pens with two different ratios between insulin glargine and lixisenatide which may increase the risk for medication errors.	Negative
With regard to TEAE profile, no meaningful qualitative and quantitative differences were seen as to short-term and long-term treatment as well as to the dose regimen.	Neutral
The bioequivalence study appears to have been well conducted.	Positive
Most common reported events were infections, infusion related reactions.	Neutral
The European Medicines Agency will review new information on this medicinal product at least every year and this SmPC will be updated as necessary	Neutral
the MAH should conduct and submit the results of the 	Negative
• Registries initiative - Collaborations with existing disease registries across the globe to capitalize on the available clinical experts and networks and modifying to be able to collect appropriate information and take in to account availability of medicinal product(s)	Neutral
The adverse reaction patterns differed however in the aspect that the FRC group had a lower frequency of subjects with gastrointestinal adverse reactions compared to the lixisenatide group but a higher frequency of subjects with these reactions compared to use with insulin glargine.	Neutral
Overall, clinical similarity between ABP 501 and adalimumab has been demonstrated.	Positive
This medicinal product has been authorised under a so-called ‘conditional approval’ scheme	Neutral
Although toxicity appears to be manageable with the intended combination, an onset of more frequent or severe toxicity may occur in a larger database and/or at longer term.	Negative
The concerns raised during the procedure regarding the BE have been satisfactorily answered and the product is approvable from the clinical point of view.	Positive
Conclusions concerning recommended use are discussed in the B/R section.	Neutral
The safety data collected at an earlier data cut remains consistent with longer follow up 	Positive
There was no general indication of VOX-associated transaminitis, as has been seen with other NS3/4A inhibitors; however, two cases associated with concomitant ethinyl estradiol among a total of 29 objects exposed, which makes co-administration quite questionable.	Negative
A summary of the literature with regard to clinical data of Daptomycin Hospira and justifications that the product is essentially similar in properties with regards to safety and efficacy of the reference product was provided and was accepted by the CHMP.	Positive
The safety of avelumab in the proposed indication appears to be acceptable and manageable with the recommendations as proposed in the SmPC and the RMP	Positive
Broadly, the number, severity and type of TEAEs, SAEs, AEs of special interest, treatment discontinuations due to AEs, laboratory findings were comparable between SB5 and Humira and mirroring the safety profile as described in the SmPC of Humira.	Positive
Maintenance of the treatment effect in year 3 and 4 was supported by long-term data from CLARITY EXT.	Positive
In the pivotal RA trial, efficacy results in terms of DAS28 and ACR were shown to be comparable between CT-P10 and MabThera.	Positive
The safety profile of SOF/VEL/VOX for 8 or 12 weeks in patients with compensated liver disease due to HCV infection appears favourable.	Positive
Since Tadalafil Lilly application is an informed consent of Cialis application, the clinical data in support of the Tadalafil Lilly application are identical to the up-to-date clinical data of Cialis dossier, which have been assessed and authorised (including all post-marketing procedures).	Positive
CSF data are being collected from both these studies and will be used in the comprehensive update to the Pop PK model	Neutral
Since Rolufta application is an informed consent of Incruse application, the clinical data in support of the Rolufta application are identical to the up-to-date clinical data of Incruse dossier, which have been assessed and authorised (including all post-marketing procedures).	Positive
A summary of the literature with regard to clinical data of Pemetrexed Hospira UK Limited and justifications that the different salt of the active substance does not differ significantly in properties with regards to safety and efficacy of the reference product was provided and was accepted by the CHMP. 	Positive
The safety profile of D/C/F/TAF FDC is supported by the results from the phase 2 study and as well by the preliminary results from the ongoing phase 3 studies.	Positive
The difference in magnitude across endpoints is in alignment with the understanding of the pathology of SMA, where deficiency in SMN protein leads to disease progression from events more proximal to the action of SMN such as declines in motor neuron health as measured by CMAP and CHOP INTEND, through those that are more distal, as measured by motor milestones and event-free survival	Neutral
Additional sensitivity analyses performed confirmed the robustness of observed PFS.	Positive
In addition, PK data discussed support the extrapolation to the autoimmune indications MPA/GPA.	Positive
The observed 20% reduction in the exacerbation rate is above the minimum clinically important difference.	Positive
Overall, the safety profile of PPS is not considered of concern.	Positive
Also the psoriasis study met the primary endpoint with a point estimate of difference of 2% with narrow CIs, indicating similarity.	Positive
Study 221 will continue to characterize safety for the combination treatment in patients with non clear cell renal carcinoma.	Neutral
No new or unexpected adverse reactions were noted with the fixed combination of lixisenatide/insulin glargine (FRC) compared to the mono-components.	Positive
To support the application, the applicant has submitted one bioequivalence study.	Neutral
The efficacy of the combination of lenvatinib with everolimus has been shown.	Positive
No significant additional benefit was observed with weekly dosing versus Q2W dosing (300 mg s.c) in the overall population.	Neutral
The applicant provided six pivotal studies to support this application.	Neutral
It was a randomized, blind, 1-way parallel bioequivalence study of nitisinone 10 mg capsule and Orfadin (reference) following a 10 mg dose in healthy subjects under fasting conditions.	Neutral
With regard to immunogenicity, the incidence and titre distribution of ADAs were compared and seemed similar for SB5 and Humira, with about half of all subjects developing neutralising antibodies in each treatment group.	Positive
The sample size was calculated to provide adequate power of bioequivalence analysis.	Positive
The addition of VOX appears to increase the barrier to resistance compared to SOF/VEL alone.	Neutral
In addition, PK data discussed support the extrapolation to the autoimmune indications MPA/GPA.	Positive
For these parameters, CHF 5993 pMDI and Foster pMDI + Tiotropium generally showed a similar effect.	Neutral
The separate components of the D/C/F/TAF fixed dose combination are already approved, also for use with specific combination.	Neutral
A summary of the literature with regard to clinical data of tadalafil and two bioequivalence studies were provided to demonstrate that the active substance does not differ significantly in properties with regards to safety and efficacy of the reference product and was accepted by the CHMP.	Positive
A biowaiver for the 20 mg strength is considered acceptable.	Positive
Therefore the absence of a bioequivalence study was considered justified and the CHMP concluded that no clinical data were needed to support the application for Lacosamide Accord 50 mg, 100 mg, 150 mg and 200 mg film-coated tablets as a generic medicinal product to Vimpat.	Positive
Preliminary results from the ongoing phase 3 studies are reassuring in this respect.	Positive
The reported toxicity was in general predictable and manageable.	Positive
No clinically relevant added benefit of additional treatment cycles beyond year 2 was evident.	Neutral
These are being used to collect the required PK data in order to enable the company to make future decisions about whether any dose adjustment, or further investigation in to dose adjustment, is required	Neutral
The study has been performed under fed conditions, which reflects recommendations in the brand leader’s SPC for the administration of the product.	Positive
Immunological reactions such as allergic reactions and injections site reactions were few and equally distributed between the different treatment groups.	Positive
The data furthermore support the use of a cumulative dose of 3.5 mg/kg to be administered in 2 courses each for 2 years.	Positive
Pre-symptomatic infants treated with nusinersen experienced fewer adverse events compared with symptomatic infants which is most likely due to their healthier baseline condition, which they maintained throughout participation in the study	Neutral
CHMP thus acknowledged that the applicant’s proposal for a treatment recommendation could overall be followed in DAA treatment naïve patients, having in mind the possibility of bridging efficacy from GT1 based on comparable in vitro activity leading to favour a simplified regimen for a programmatic approach to HCV eradication (targeted by 2030 by WHO).	Positive
The primary endpoint was met, and similarity at week 24 was indicated with low point estimates and narrow CI intervals both for ACR20 RR and Risk Difference.	Positive
In the pivotal RA trial, efficacy results in terms of DAS28 and ACR were shown to be comparable between CT-P10 and MabThera.	Positive
The safety profile of Maviret (glecaprevir/pibrentasvir) is favourable with no major concern identified.	Positive
Data from the ongoing studies in infantile-onset SMA support that treatment with nusinersen has the potential to prolong overall and event-free survival	Positive
There was no difference in insulin dose with the FRC compared to monotherapy with insulin glargine in any of the studies, thus there was no insulin “saving” effect with the FRC when the insulin dose in the comparator group was capped at 60 U. 	Neutral
In accordance with the study protocol the study meets the bioequivalence criteria as 90% confidence intervals for the ln-transformed pharmacokinetic parameters Cmax and AUC0-t for ivabradine is within the acceptance range of 80.00% - 125.00% with power (1-β) 99.45 and 99.99 respectively.	Positive
This data is considered supportive in establishing biosimilarity.	Positive
Study TRIPLE 5, triple therapy with BDP/FF/GB (CHF 5993) had a statistically significant and clinically relevant superior effect on pre-dose and 2-h post-dose FEV1 at week 26 than BDP/FF (Foster).	Positive
The secondary endpoints PASI 75 and sPGA showed point estimates of 7% difference with a wide CI.	Neutral
The safety risks associated with immune related adverse reactions are managed through additional risk minimisation activities implemented in the form of educational materials that will inform HCPs and patients on how to identify and properly handle suspected immune related ADRs	Neutral
The overall safety profile of lenvatinib-everolimus combination is consistent with known safety profiles of its components observed either in other indications (for lenvatinib) or in the intended indication (for everolimus).	Positive
Review of the available data demonstrated no safety concerns due to nusinersen exposure	Positive
The results presented on efficacy support the biosimilarity claim between the test product SB5 and the reference product EU Humira.	Positive
In the pivotal RA trial, efficacy results in terms of DAS28 and ACR were shown to be comparable between CT-P10 and MabThera.	Positive
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Granpidam is considered bioequivalent with Viagra (reference product used).	Positive
Lenvatinib/everolimus combination therapy demonstrated improved PFS compared to everolimus monotherapy with a median PFS of 14.6 months vs. 5.5 months.	Positive
Although dataset of AFL patients has been updated, data are still considered very limited to reach firm conclusion about safety proflie.	Negative
The planned extension studies CT-P10 3.2 (RA) CT-P10 3.3 (AFL) and CT-P10 3.4 (LTBFL) listed in the RMP will provide additional long term safety data.	Neutral
Overall, the available clinical efficacy data were considered adequate to support the use of cladribine in the treatment of adult patients with highly active RMS as defined by clinical or imaging features.	Positive
Therefore, the CHMP endorsed the proposed dose of 300 mg every other week (Q2W) with a loading dose of 600 mg on day 1.	Neutral
As questions still remain on the long term safety, ongoing open-label extension studies are being undertaken that will provide further data.	Negative
They also support the need for early treatment with nusinersen, since shortly after the loading phase was complete, the rate of ventilation among nusinersen-treated subjects separated from that of the controls	Positive
Additional safety data from Maintenance Study Period CT-P10 3.3. and Follow-up Period should be provided (see RMP).	Negative
The RMP adequately reflects the safety concerns listed for the two monocomponents. The	Positive
